The Newkirk Award was an opportunity for students to write curriculum for SSU. Originally intended for upper-division students, Andrew Evans' proposal allowed him and I to write the curriculum for Computer Applications for Scientists. Currently taught as a mandatory upper-division Physics class at SSU, we were only able to write this material thanks to our combined knowledge. A project-based course, much of the lesson plan was oriented around creating an animated and accurate model of the solar system. My responsibilities in this project consisted mainly of three tasks:

## 1. Lesson Planning
Course content was written mainly in LaTeX and consisted of 10 lessons each intended to be taught over the course of an hour. These went from a cursory understanding of Python and Matplotlib to the more advanced and complex systems that we were going to simulate. Andrew wrote the introduction to Python while I wrote largely about the middle of the course moving to the beginning of our physical simulations and a more in-depth look at Python, and we collaboratively worked on the plan for the final weeks. We were largely given free reign to guide the structure of the course as we saw fit.

## 2. Homework Assignments
Accompanying each lesson plan, homework was also given via LaTeX documents and step-by-step solutions were given to faculty as separate LaTeX/Python files. Written (unless I'm mistaken) mainly by me, each homework assignment consisted of a few short answer problems intended to take 1 to 2 hours. Additionally, given that it was a project-based course, part of the material for each assignment was using what had been learned to add to our simulation.

## 3. Final Project
Being a project-based class, significant time was spent ensuring that the final project that we were working towards was reasonable to accomplish and that its steps were documented. Additionally, given that neither one of us had the expertise to make the final project solely on our own, intense collaboration was required in order to build our final result. In the end, we built a physically-accurate model of the solar system that included special relativity (in order to better simulate Mercury's orbit) alongside building a C++ version of the project made to run computationally expensive verification.
